---
title: 2012
layout: post
tags:
    - Personal
---

Let's look back at the year 2012. It was a very succesful year, for me,
though we had some ups and downs at [IWA-Tech][]. People came and people
left. I took over a new role and learned many things.

## IWA-Tech

At IWA-Tech we had a good start into 2012, then some minor troubles and
unexpected changes in Product Leadership midway through, and then
regained our strength in the finish.

I started off in 2012, as one of four web developers and then with a
deadline in sight, was asked to take over Product Design — which I did.

So suddenly I, the "Greenhorn", was in charge of the product. Something
which I very much dreamed of. It was a unique chance, to substantially
change the way we work to the better, and I've learned many things in
the last 3 months.

With only six weeks until the deadline, we moved again to weekly
iterations, to focus more on shipping. At the beginning of the year we
changed from Scrum to Kanban, which meant going from a two week time
limit for all tasks, to _no_ limit.

We noticed that, instead of shipping, features went to "Done" unnoticed,
and then stayed there. So what we tried is, that we make weekly
iterations, so everyone is aware of the state of things, what's done,
what's in review and what's next. This iterations are not exactly like
Scrum sprints — they are much more loose. Stories don't have to be
finished at the end of the iteration — there ain't something like a
"Failed Sprint".

This is better in several ways:

* Let's face it: _Things don't go as you expect._ If you've a rather
  unstable product stakeholders, which change and are kind of in
  "pivoting" mode, then many things come in at short notice. This
  results in the team not making it to the commitment, which in turn
  results in a major drop in motivation.
* Planning and review is the main benefit of making weekly iterations,
  and communication is much better, because we sit together and everyone
  sees and talks about the state of affairs. There's less chance that
  features go to "Done" unnoticed.
* It creates a frame for time. If you've no time frames, time goes by
  unnoticed, and you hardly notice that you're sitting 3 weeks at the
  story, though you could've finished earlier. But this is only one part
  of the story, the other is that if the effort is high to start something
  new, then it's hard to move on to the next thing. This is one area which
  ain't quite there yet, and I'd like to improve further in 2013

Though, managing the development of a product is very stressful and hard
at times, it continues to be a very rewarding experience. I'm really
starting to like connecting people, and designing interfaces. One thing
that worries me, is that I'm no longer really able to contribute to
backend tasks. I've spent the last one and a half years doing it, and
now I have to talk to a real developer to accomplish anything serious.

So this was long enough, I probably should write another post about my
Product Design experiences.

[IWA-Tech]: http://iwa-tech.com

## Open Source

In 2012 I have started several new projects:

* [php-build][], which saw __11__ releases during 2012, attracted __15__
  contributors, was starred __145__ times, and has __24__ forks. It's a
  real open source project, and the single project of me which had the
  most impact on the overall community. It's used by [Travis CI][] for
  the PHP support. _I'd like to thank the people, which
  contributed to php-build in 2012!_
* [Pipe][]: I overhauled the asset deployment for [our][IWA-Tech] [main
  project][talenthouse], and was very frustated that [Assetic][] didn't
  really fit the way I like to work with assets. I really liked how
  [Sprockets][] works, so I took the things I did like from Sprockets —
  like the Directives and Dependency Management — and tried porting this
  to Assetic, but it was really ugly and didn't really fit how
  Assetic was designed. So I set aside some time and made Pipe. After falling in love with [Silex][], I also created a [Silex Service Provider for Pipe](http://github.com/CHH/pipe-silex).
* [Spark][]: I admit it: I'm in love with [Silex][]. So Spark is a proof
  of concept, for building a full stack framework on top of it. It uses
  some of my components like [Pipe][], and many other community
  developed Service Providers. 2013 will hopefully bring Active Record
  to Spark, and hopefully the first Beta release.

[Silex]: http://silex.sensiolabs.org
[Pipe]: http://github.com/CHH/pipe
[Spark]: http://github.com/CHH/spark
[php-build]: http://github.com/CHH/php-build
[Travis CI]: http://travis-ci.org
[talenthouse]: http://talenthouse.com
[Assetic]: http://github.com/kriswallsmith/assetic
[Sprockets]: http://github.com/sstephenson/sprockets

## 2013

This was 2012, and I really look forward to 2013!

Few things which you can anticipate:

* _A responsive redesign of this site_, after dipping my toes into
  responsive web design with the redesign of the [IWA-Tech][] site, I
  really want to also make this page usable to phones and tablets.
* Spark Beta: The first beta of the Spark framework, a full stack
  framework built on top of Silex.
* [php-build][] v1.0.0, which will see some restructuring, and will be
  the first release which breaks backwards compatibility with the dev
  versions.
